[THEME MUSIC]
>> I'm Jonny Enoch and this
is "Mystery Teachings."
Many of you are familiar with
the concept of past lives
or transmigration.
Not only is this
taught in branches
of our Eastern religions
like Hinduism, Jainism,
and Buddhism, but
this is no doubt
the original meaning of
the Christian teaching
of being born again.
The word reincarnation just
means to re-enter the flesh,
and is reinterpreted
from a Sanskrit word
Samsara that has a much broader
definition about rebirth.
In this episode, we'll discuss
how your life, circumstances,
your family, and
friends are no accident
and you've done this
before many times.
I want you all to think
back to a time in your life
when you have encountered
significant people
or circumstances that were
eerily familiar to you
like when you've
just met someone
for the first time at
a line up at a coffee
shop in the middle
of nowhere, yet they
feel like a best friend
that you've known forever.
Or maybe it's the
total opposite,
and you've had a
complete antipathy
for someone
instantly after being
introduced to them no matter
how nice they might seem.
Many times, we might have a
draw towards certain kinds
of traditions, music,
or art from entirely
different cultures than
what we've grown up with.
These sorts of scenarios
are not uncommon,
as oftentimes we might
find ourselves attracted
to certain periods of
history or parts of the world
we've wanted to travel
to all our lives.
At other times, we want to avoid
those places all together out
of some unknown fear.
Perhaps one of the
greatest arguments
that could be made
for reincarnation
is the phenomena of savants
and child prodigies.
These are extraordinarily gifted
mathematicians, musicians,
and artists that possess
noticeable talent
from an early age.
And while we can explain
away some of this
with epigenetics
or genetic memory,
according to esoteric
teachings, your gifts
and genius in this
lifetime are the result
of a development
over many lifetimes.
We actually have empirical
proof or scientific data
connecting past life memories
to real historical events,
such as the thousands of
cases that have been collected
by psychologist Dr. Jim Tucker
at the University of Virginia.
Not only did he study the past
life memories of young children
who can recall incredibly
vivid and detailed memories
about their past lives,
but their memories
are connected to countless
different cultures
and periods of history.
Usually, these memories begin
to fade out at around 7,
but extraordinary
evidence has been
found for the legitimacy of
these claims in children.
Such as we find in the cases
of James Leininger, who
from the age of 2, had
verifiable memories of being
a World War II pilot some
50 years before he was born.
Or take the case of Ryan Hammons
for instance, who not only came
from a devout Baptist family
with no belief in reincarnation
whatsoever, but
at 4 years of age,
he started to have these
vivid recollections
of being a Hollywood extra and
talent agent in the 1940s that
just wanted to go home.
Even Pythagoras
taught his disciples
about the teachings
of metempsychosis
or the passing of the soul
after death into another body.
He believed that it took
about 800 human incarnations
to evolve ourselves.
Much like Buddha and Confucius,
having spent time in India,
he learned about the
noble doctrine of rebirth
from the Brahmins.
Pythagoras taught that the
idea about us being incarnated
into animals actually relates to
us being born under our animal
signs from the Zodiac
as our souls travel here
from the stars.
This is not unlike the belief
of the ancient Chaldeans
of the Eleusinian
mysteries, is a reminded
of the roof at Hathor's
Temple in Dendera
of Egypt where when
you look up, you
see beautiful illustrations
of people in boats
traveling between the stars.
Heraclitus tells
us that Pythagoras
could recall several
of his past lives
and shared them with
his loyal followers.
At other times, he helped them
remember their past lives such
was the case of one of his
disciples, Milo of Crotone who
remembered that he had been
the Phrygian King Midas who
is forever remembered
by Greek mythology
as turning everything
he touched to gold.
Perhaps one of the greatest
spiritual discoveries ever made
about rebirth came from
Dr. Michael Newton in 1996.
What's really amazing
about his story
is that he was a self-proclaimed
lifelong atheist who
had a PhD in
behavioral psychology
and used clinical hypnotherapy
to treat phobias and childhood
traumas.
One day, as fate
would have it, a man
comes strolling into
his office complaining
about an unexplainable
pain in his side
that he had since childhood
that not even his doctors
could figure out.
Because all the x-rays
were fine and they
kept telling him
that he needed to go
see a psychologist instead.
Newton figured it was
probably just some sort
of psychosomatic reaction
to a childhood memory.
But while doing the
session, he went deeper
to the source of the pain.
He was shocked to
hear his patients say
that this pain came
from a past life
as a British sergeant
in World War I.
Instead of relieving
the pain right away,
Newton, being an
amateur historian buff,
asked him for a name, military
unit, and badge number.
After the client left, he
called the British war office
in Imperial Museum
in London to find out
if this British sergeant
ever actually existed.
And sure enough, he died
in 1916 and all his details
checked out.
Newton soon discovered we
all have incredible memories
of what it was like to die,
cross over to the spirit side,
review our lives, and pick
our bodies before we get here.
Newton went on to establish
a highly-respected standard
in the field of past
life regression called
Life Between Lives therapy.
Thanks to Newton's
thorough questioning
and detailed mapping out
in the dialogues he's
had with thousands of
clients over the years,
we've learned a lot about
the process of reincarnation
involving this unique sphere
of our soul we all have
and where we go between
lives on the spirit side.
On the spirit side, not only
are we reunited with loved ones.
We play games over there,
make music, and take part
in recreational activities.
We do not have to incarnate
on Earth for more lives
if we do not wish to come
here and endure the harshness
or the cruelty of our world.
But for those of us
that choose to return,
we do so for our own
growth and evolution.
We can even incarnate on other
planets, dimensions, galaxies,
and solar systems.
Even if your life is
difficult on Earth right now,
you might say, I'm never coming
back to this place again.
The truth is that this is a
very physical perspective.
And no matter how hard
it might seem right now,
you chose to be here.
These case studies of
past life regressions
have also confirmed much
of what we've learned
in our esoteric teachings.
Not only do we have
an immortal soul name,
but we are spun out of
various creation suns,
and these exist in
each galaxy, as there
different types of soul
vehicles for the incarnations
required there.
This has been mentioned in books
like "The Afterlife of Billy
Fingers" by Dr. Annie Kagan,
and Newton mentions it
in "Journey of Souls".
But I've also encountered
this in many cases
where I've done
regressions with people.
We tend to operate in a
soul group cluster that
has an interconnected evolution,
meaning we are evolving
around the same time
as our soul group
and we have a spirit
family of our own
that was spun out or formed
at the same time as us
when we came from the source.
This is also where we come
to terms like soul mates
and twin flames
that are connected
to us from this process.
Animals and other
life forms do possess
individualized
intelligences that
exist in a slightly different
sphere than human souls.
But a powerful
connection remains
with their human companions
where the personalized energy
that has been
shared between them
continues on after this world.
Our pets do continue
on for periods
after this life in
the spirit world
where oftentimes
they can be seen
by psychics for a short
while after they pass.
Or we can encounter
them in the afterlife.
This is further substantiated
in neoplatonic and Buddhist
doctrines as the Buddhists
were the first to open up
animal hospitals.
The difference between human
intelligence and animal
intelligence, however, is that
their spiritual and physical
natures are slightly different.
After all, there are some highly
intelligent animals out there.
We know apes can solve
complex problems that
could baffle a sixth grader.
Squirrels can remember
where they buried thousands
of nuts and even
outsmart predators
with their various calls.
But animals operate off of a
different type of intelligence
called instinct, and they
have a collective soul
or a group spirit that generates
countless physical bodies.
Whereas humans have evolved
an individualized ego
with our souls having separate
mental and emotional bodies.
According to the esoteric
teachings of Manly P Hall,
animals not only experience
emotions differently than us,
but also physical
pain as we might
have an individualized
experience
but their pain is absorbed
back into the collective entity
of its species.
However, this does not prevent
the karmic consequences
of abusing or
mistreating animals.
The powerful archetypal forces
of the group spirit of animals
is why the Native Americans
and other ancient cultures
recognize the importance
of animal totems
in aligning with their energies.
In Eastern theosophy, we
learn that plant life also has
a collective entity and is a
cycle lower than the animal
kingdom and two cycles
lower than humans.
After a lower form of
plant life has completed
its cycles of evolution,
it might become extinct,
and at that point, it evolves
into something even greater
than before.
Eliphas Levi tells us this in
his doctrine of Transcendental
Magic part 2 that nothing
perishes in nature.
Whatsoever has lived goes on
living always under new forms
but even the interior forms
are not destroyed since they
remain in our memory.
Not only were trees
sacred to the druids who
recognized their electromagnetic
properties such as the Celts
did, even with
their tree alphabet
we call the Ohms or Oghaims,
but in science we've
looked at what's called
"The Secret Life of Trees",
as we've learned that
their leaves have
a photonic exchange of energy
from transbiotic accumulation
of sugars, carbon, and oxygen
that has step down into protein
bases and calcium which
are distributed down
through the roots of the
tree to help other life
forms from miles around.
The collective intelligence
of these life forms
is also true for crystals,
minerals, rocks, and elementals
which are at the
lowest orders of life
and do not have
an individual body
but also emanate
from a group spirit.
The ancients believe
that each precious stone
is the result of the rays
from the sun reflecting
the signs of the zodiac.
The diamond is the highest of
these orders in the mineral
kingdom but certain
plants have connections
to these kingdoms such
as the case of grapes
which we can also find
traces of gold within them
if you burn their branches.
This is why you find grapes
on the Pentacle cards
in the Tarot which is associated
with golden coins or disks,
as their fruit is
associated also
with the deception of earthly
pleasures and materialism.
The cycles of life are
waves and emanations
from the source continue to
constantly grow and evolve
in a various collective entities
for every aspect of life,
not only for our own
incarnated personalities
but for every planet,
race, and nation on Earth.
Ultimately growing and
evolving its group's
soul until every last
life form is enlightened.
Truly, it is only an
illusion that there
are different races on Earth.
As in actuality,
everyone we meet
is really just another
reflection of ourselves.
Newton tells us this
in "Journey of Souls"
that when a planet dies
out, the souls from there
will move on to another
one like Earth that
is harmonic with them.
It's not far-fetched to
imagine a scenario like that
happening on Mars originally.
As we know, it was originally
able to harbor life
until losing its atmosphere.
I would ask you,
what better place
for its original inhabitants
to go than to Earth
which is just nearby?
According to "Life
Between Lives" sessions,
some souls recall being
able to exist in two places
at once, like having
themselves split in half.
But unlike animals that
have a group spirit that
can regenerate countless
physical bodies,
souls with split incarnations
are not generally fully present
and might be easily exhausted.
In fact, many souls
might feel overwhelmed
after incarnating
on Earth and require
a resting or
reintegration period
after finishing
their lives here.
For souls, there's
no greater purpose
than to evolve to the point
of a creator intelligence
and be in unification
with the supreme being.
There is also a
life review process
that we do after every
incarnation, which
I've encountered
with people I've
worked with over the years,
and it's the same one
that NDE survivors go through
in a 360-degree panoramic,
fully-immersive life
review experience where
after it's complete, you discuss
your experiences with what's
been known as the
Council of Elders
or a Council of Wise Ones
who are these loving, very
wise beings that consider
all the actions in your life
along with your spirit guides
as a means of helping you
understand what you've
just gone through
and how to integrate
the lessons.
This council is assigned to
us to discuss our life plans,
exit points, and really go
over the strategies of what
will be our greatest learning
points before we get here.
So we can either fix up
what we didn't learn before
or live a life
that's going to be
most suitable for what we need.
Another process outlined
in Newton's work
is life selection in
the pre-birth process.
Before you were born here, you
get to pick your opportunities
and what your life experiences
will be out on these screens
through the help of
our council of elders.
Essentially, these "Life
Between Lives" sessions
have also revealed that we go
through somewhat of a dress
rehearsal with our family
members and friends
before incarnating.
This involves meeting with
our parents in this world
even before you're born
and giving ourselves
unique challenges.
We learn from "Life
Between Lives" cases
that older souls incarnate
less and choose to stay back
and become spirit guides
and take on other duties
in between lives.
And while younger souls
might incarnate more often
for faster or
easier assignments,
many souls choose not to
come back to Earth at all.
Surprisingly enough,
because time does not
exist on the spirit side
and it's non-linear,
everything is happening
in simultaneity
and linear reality is only an
illusion created by your mind.
We learn from the
incarnation process
that you could choose to
be born into a lifetime
in the distant past, let's
say 2,000 years ago or even
the future if needed, and
there are infinite numbers
of timelines and parallel
universes constantly being
created every second for
our progress and development
that we are shifting
into constantly.
This is because on
the spirit side,
souls create the
illusion of time
to prepare for incarnations and
measure periods between lives.
We learn in "The Afterlife
of Billy Fingers"
that we also possess the ability
to go from universe to universe
by using doorways, but
this process sometimes
involves shedding your current
soul vehicle in a void.
This vehicle is the sum
total of your embodiments,
and when you go
through this process,
you gain a new soul vehicle that
can operate in other universes.
When we begin to examine
our soul from a broader
perspective, we begin
to understand our lives
at a greater depth.
A word that gets
thrown around a lot
is karma, which comes from a
Sanskrit word meaning action.
Essentially, it is
cause and effect.
What is also
important is Dharma,
which is like an unconscious
accumulation of our good deeds
and intentions that steers
us in the right direction.
One way we can understand
karma and reincarnation
is by meditating on the Wheel
of Fortune card in the Tarot.
This is based on
the Buddhist concept
of the wheel of life also known
as the wheel of Dharma and law.
We get a good idea about this
process from Hermes or Thoth
who described the streams
of souls flowing back
into the material illusion
from the abode of the dead,
meaning that the more
emphasis you put upon material
possessions during
an incarnation
here with your personality and
appetites, the more difficult
it is for us to stop and
step down from the wheel.
The ego, personality,
and the self
are a direct byproduct
of our embodiments
which includes our
gifts and talents
or your genius which the Greeks
called our personal demon.
This includes our fears,
friends, or lack thereof,
happiness, and security.
Only the detached
or enlightened soul
can escape from
the net of matter
to attain immortality or
graduate from this Earth.
When we examine the story
of the life of Buddha,
when his body had become
too weak to support him
and he was making a transition
from this world into the next,
various animals
gathered around him
and birds sat on his shoulder.
He had a discussion
with his disciples
about rebirth and the
transitory process.
He starts to explain
to them that he's
lived many lifetimes
where he was not
always a virtuous or good man.
And some of these lives, he was
very selfish and made mistakes.
In the culpa lata, he says, :
though I am not an immaculate
Sambuddha, yet I am being
visited by my troubles.
My body is subject to pains
owing to the evil deeds
of my former births".
Buddha went on to tell them
that in his past lives,
he'd killed people,
including his own brother
for an inheritance.
He told him of
many lives where he
was careless of
others' feelings,
destroying reputation, and
causing pain and suffering.
If you visit Borobudur in
Central Java, Indonesia,
we find the largest
Buddhist temple
in the world in a
pyramidal structure that
consists of these nine stock
platforms, six square and three
circular that have these
strange bell-shaped domes.
On there, we find over 504
Buddhist statues or shrines,
and 2,672 reliefs
that illustrate
the various mythological
lives of the Buddha,
including his incarnations
as a turtle that
carried lost sailors to shore,
and an elephant that gave up
its tusks for a jealous woman
who according to legends
later on became one
of his followers.
In the Jataka, it says that
in his last incarnation
before becoming
the Buddha, he was
King Vessantara, who was
very generous and virtuous
during his lifetime.
After he left that life
and returned to the Tushita
heavens, a place of pure
bliss, peace, perfection,
we find about his propala, or
the divine and pure sattva,
or being of the Buddha that
was waiting for reincarnation.
It is here that Buddha decided
to come to Earth for one
more incarnation to clear
his karma from his past lives
so he could reach nirvana.
So he did so by coming
to Earth as a prince
and had a pre-birth life plan
to give up his earthly riches
and titles.
And although Buddha never
thought of himself as a God
as he has been
venerated to be so,
we are told there will be
one more divine incarnation
of the Buddha with Maitreya, who
is the large full-figured jolly
Buddha with the belly that
followers bow before when
entering the Buddhist temple.
One of the Buddhist
teachings is that life
is a school, not a playground.
But the game of life
can be a fun type
of educational learning so
we shouldn't take ourselves
too seriously.
And while we're here, we need
to develop a sense of humor
on the journey.
One thing is for certain,
the school of life
can be a very advanced
and difficult class.
So the very fact that
you are here regardless
of how many mistakes you
think you may have made,
means that you are all
highly evolved souls.
And that includes
everyone watching this.
You need to give yourself
a pat on the back.
We come here with a type
of spiritual amnesia
and most of us can't
remember our past lives.
This is more of a
protection mechanism
if anything, as well we may have
been very kind and good people
in some lives.
In others, we may
have hurt people,
or they might be filled with
great tragedies and loss.
This is not always the case
when being on other planets that
are more evolved as regressions
have revealed that there are
easier places to incarnate
to where you can fully
remember who you are.
But we have to see
every life we've lived
is a role we played
for our own progress
in a great cosmic play.
The good news is
is that there are
a number of ways that we can
learn to recall our past lives
and identify the patterns of the
lessons we came here to learn.
One popular way is to do
a past life regression
through clinical hypnotherapy.
Or you could take a
meditative journey
to your Akashic records.
Other powerful ways of
opening up the doors
to your subconscious
memory include
using your imagination such as
creative writing or painting
and drawing.
Another thing you can try doing
is dousing for your past lives
by writing down different time
periods on a piece of paper
and use a pendulum to dangle
over it and see where it spins.
After you finish
these exercises,
you might recall various
past lives in your dreams
or they might come to you in
the form of a clear cognizant
thought.
We have to ask
ourselves this, what
is the purpose of all of
this, this world, our lives,
these bodies and our
experiences if they do not
exist for a reason?
Much like everything in nature,
our universe has a purpose
and it is a machine to
grow and evolve souls.
And because we all
come from the One,
we won't stay
individuals forever.
Eventually, we will
all become whole again
after all the life forms in our
universe become enlightened,
we will become
aware of ourselves
as an eternal super
consciousness.
And at that point,
we will witness
what the Hindu Upanishads
called the weaving
of the golden
thread which ties us
all together like beads with
all the various galaxies,
solar systems,
planets, and souls.
Perhaps it's then we will
create a new universe
with new laws, thoughts,
dimensions, and beings
doing it all over again
in a beautiful process
of infinite growth,
expansion, and evolution.
I'm Jonny Enoch, and thanks for
watching "Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]